.TH TEKHTON 1 "March 2026" "Tekhton v1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tekhton \- multi-agent development pipeline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tekhton
[\fIFLAGS\fR] \fI"task description"\fR
.br
.B tekhton
.B \-\-init
.br
.B tekhton
.B \-\-plan
.br
.B tekhton
.B \-\-version
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tekhton is a standalone, project-agnostic multi-agent development pipeline built on
the Claude CLI.
It orchestrates a
.BR Coder " \(-> " Reviewer " \(-> " Tester
cycle with automatic rework routing, build gates, state persistence, and resume support.
.PP
.I "One intent. Many hands."
.PP
Tekhton reads its configuration from
.I .claude/pipeline.conf
in the target project directory and agent role definitions from
.IR .claude/agents/*.md .
All pipeline logic lives in the Tekhton installation directory.
Nothing is copied into target projects except config and agent role files.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Core Flags"
.TP
.B \-\-init
Scaffold
.IR .claude/pipeline.conf " and " .claude/agents/*.md
role files for a new project.
Also creates a stub
.I CLAUDE.md
if one does not already exist.
Run this once from the project root before the first pipeline invocation.
.TP
.B \-\-plan
Launch the interactive planning phase.
Runs a multi-phase interview and generates a
.I DESIGN.md
(design document) and
.I CLAUDE.md
(project rules and milestones).
Does not require
.I pipeline.conf
to exist.
.TP
.B \-\-status
Print the saved pipeline state and exit without running.
Shows the stage, task, and resume command from the last interrupted run.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version string and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.SS "Pipeline Mode Flags"
.TP
.B \-\-milestone
Milestone mode.
Applies higher turn limits, increases the maximum review cycle count, and optionally
upgrades the tester model.
Use this for large, well-scoped tasks such as implementing a full CLAUDE.md milestone.
.TP
\fB\-\-start\-at\fR \fISTAGE\fR
Resume or start the pipeline at a specific stage.
Valid values:
.RS
.TP
.B coder
Full pipeline from scratch (default).
.TP
.B review
Skip the coder stage; requires an existing
.IR CODER_SUMMARY.md .
.TP
.B tester
Resume tester from an existing
.IR TESTER_REPORT.md .
.TP
.B test
Skip coder and reviewer; requires an existing
.IR REVIEWER_REPORT.md .
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-notes\-filter\fR \fICATEGORY\fR
Restrict which human notes are injected into this run.
Valid categories:
.BR BUG ", " FEAT ", " POLISH .
Untagged notes are always injected.
.TP
.B \-\-init\-notes
Create a blank
.I HUMAN_NOTES.md
template and exit.
Has no effect if the file already exists.
.SS "Audit Flags"
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-audit
Skip the architect audit stage even if the configured observation threshold is reached.
.TP
.B \-\-force\-audit
Force an architect audit regardless of whether the threshold has been reached.
.SS "Advanced Flags"
.TP
.B \-\-seed\-contracts
Run an inline contract seeding pass.
Invokes the jr\-coder model to embed system contracts into source files.
Requires
.I ARCHITECTURE.md
to exist in the project root.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Tekhton uses two directory roots, resolved automatically at startup:
.TP
.B TEKHTON_HOME
The directory containing
.IR tekhton.sh " (and " lib/ ", " stages/ ", " prompts/ ).
Set from
.IR "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" .
.TP
.B PROJECT_DIR
The target project \(em the caller's current working directory.
.PP
All agent work happens inside
.BR PROJECT_DIR .
Pipeline logic is always read from
.BR TEKHTON_HOME .
These two directories can be (and in production should be) different paths,
so the pipeline never edits its own running code.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .claude/pipeline.conf
Project-specific configuration: model selection, turn limits, commands, file paths.
Created by
.BR \-\-init .
.TP
.I .claude/agents/*.md
Agent role definitions.
Separate files for
.BR coder ", " reviewer ", " tester ", " jr\-coder ", " architect .
.TP
.I CLAUDE.md
Project rules, architecture constraints, and implementation milestones.
Read by all agents on every run.
.TP
.I DESIGN.md
Design document produced by
.BR \-\-plan .
Contains system descriptions, config architecture, and open design questions.
.TP
.I CODER_SUMMARY.md
Written by the coder stage.
Consumed by the reviewer and tester stages.
.TP
.I REVIEWER_REPORT.md
Written by the reviewer stage.
Consumed by the tester stage.
.TP
.I TESTER_REPORT.md
Written by the tester stage.
Consumed by resume logic.
.TP
.I HUMAN_NOTES.md
Optional file for human observations.
Unchecked items are injected into the next coder run.
.TP
.I NON_BLOCKING_LOG.md
Accumulates non-blocking reviewer and tester notes across runs.
.TP
.I ARCHITECTURE.md
Optional architecture reference document.
Injected into agent prompts when present.
.TP
.I ARCHITECTURE_LOG.md
Running log of architectural decisions.
Maintained by the architect audit stage.
.TP
.I DRIFT_LOG.md
Running log of drift observations between codebase reality and design intent.
.TP
.I .claude/logs/
Per-run log files.
Each agent invocation produces a timestamped log.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success (pipeline completed, or informational flag such as
.BR \-\-version ", " \-\-help ", " \-\-status ).
.TP
.B 1
Error: invalid arguments, missing configuration, build gate failure, or pipeline crash.
.SH EXAMPLES
First-time project setup:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
cd /path/to/myproject
/path/to/tekhton/tekhton.sh \-\-init
.fi
.RE
.PP
Plan a new project from scratch:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tekhton \-\-plan
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run the full pipeline on a task:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tekhton "Implement user authentication with JWT"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run in milestone mode for a large scoped task:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tekhton \-\-milestone "Implement Milestone 3: Milestone State Machine"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Resume from the review stage (coder output already exists):
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tekhton \-\-start\-at review "Fix: edge case in payment module"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Inject only bug notes this run:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tekhton \-\-notes\-filter BUG "Fix reported bugs"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a frozen v1 to build v2 (the two-directory model):
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
cd /path/to/tekhton          # PROJECT_DIR \(em editable
/path/to/tekhton\-v1/tekhton.sh \-\-milestone "Implement Milestone 1"
.fi
.RE
.SH INSTALLATION
Tekhton does not require system installation.
Run it directly with an absolute or relative path to
.IR tekhton.sh .
.PP
To make
.B tekhton
available as a command, add its directory to
.BR PATH :
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
export PATH="/path/to/tekhton:$PATH"
.fi
.RE
.PP
To install this man page system-wide:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
sudo cp /path/to/tekhton/man/man1/tekhton.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
sudo mandb
.fi
.RE
.PP
To read this man page from the source directory without installing:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
man \-M /path/to/tekhton/man tekhton
.fi
.RE
.PP
To always have
.B man tekhton
resolve to the local copy, add to your shell profile:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
export MANPATH="/path/to/tekhton/man:$MANPATH"
.fi
.RE
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.TP
.B claude
The Anthropic Claude CLI, authenticated and on
.BR PATH .
.TP
.B git
Git, available on
.BR PATH .
Used for commit hooks and drift tracking.
.TP
.B bash
Bash 4 or later.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation:
.I README.md
.br
Architecture documentation:
.I ARCHITECTURE.md
.br
Design document:
.I DESIGN.md
.br
Pipeline configuration reference:
.I .claude/pipeline.conf
.br
Upstream repository:
.I https://github.com/geoffgodwin/tekhton
.SH AUTHOR
Geoff Godwin
